
Understanding SC 4.1.2:
Name, Role, Value (Level A)
In Brief
Goal
People using assistive technology understand all components.
What to do
Give components correct names, roles, states, and values.
Why it's important
Assistive technology only works well when code is done properly.
Success Criterion (SC)
For all user interface components (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components generated by scripts), the name and role can be programmatically determined; states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be programmatically set; and notification of changes to these items is available to user agents, including assistive technologies.

Note

This success criterion is primarily for web authors who develop or script their own user interface components. For example, standard HTML controls already meet this success criterion when used according to specification.

Intent
The intent of this success criterion is to ensure that Assistive Technologies (AT) can gather appropriate information about, activate (or set) and keep up to date on the status of user interface controls in the content.

When standard controls from accessible technologies are used, this process is straightforward. If the user interface elements are used according to specification the conditions of this provision will be met. (See examples of Success Criterion 4.1.2 below)

If custom controls are created, however, or interface elements are programmed (in code or script) to have a different role and/or function than usual, then additional measures need to be taken to ensure that the controls provide important and appropriate information to assistive technologies and allow themselves to be controlled by assistive technologies.

What roles and states are appropriate to convey to assistive technology will depend on what the control represents. Specifics about such information are defined by other specifications, such as WAI-ARIA, or the relevant platform standards. Another factor to consider is whether there is sufficient accessibility support with assistive technologies to convey the information as specified.

A particularly important state of a user interface control is whether or not it has focus. The focus state of a control can be programmatically determined, and notifications about change of focus are sent to user agents and assistive technology. Other examples of user interface control states are whether or not a checkbox or radio button has been selected, or whether a collapsible tree view or accordion is expanded or collapsed.

Note

Success Criterion 4.1.2 requires a programmatically determinable name for all user interface components. Names may be visible or invisible. Occasionally, the name needs to be visible, in which case it is identified as a label. Refer to the definition of name and label in the glossary for more information.

Benefits
Providing role, state, and value information on all user interface components enables compatibility with assistive technology, such as screen readers, screen magnifiers, and speech recognition software, used by people with disabilities.
Examples
Accessible APIs
A Java applet uses the accessibility API defined by the language.
Related Resources
Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

Web Accessibility Initiative - Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA)
ARIA in HTML
Accessible Name and Description Computation 1.2
ARIA Authoring Practices Guide
Techniques
Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination of techniques that the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group deems sufficient for meeting this Success Criterion. A technique may go beyond the minimum requirement of the criterion. There may be other ways of meeting the criterion not covered by these techniques. For information on using other techniques, see Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria, particularly the "Other Techniques" section.

Sufficient Techniques
Select the situation below that matches your content. Each situation includes techniques or combinations of techniques that are known and documented to be sufficient for that situation.

Situation A: If using a standard user interface component in a markup language (e.g., HTML):
ARIA14: Using aria-label to provide an invisible label where a visible label cannot be used
ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user interface controls
G108: Using markup features to expose the name and role, allow user-settable properties to be directly set, and provide notification of changes using technology-specific techniques below:

H91: Using HTML form controls and links
H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form controls
H64: Using the title attribute of the iframe element
H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when the label element cannot be used
H88: Using HTML according to spec
Situation B: If using script or code to re-purpose a standard user interface component in a markup language:
Exposing the names and roles, allowing user-settable properties to be directly set, and providing notification of changes using one of the following techniques:

ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user interface controls
Situation C: If using a standard user interface component in a programming technology:
G135: Using the accessibility API features of a technology to expose names and … notification of changes using technology-specific techniques below:

PDF10: Providing labels for interactive form controls in PDF documents
PDF12: Providing name, role, value information for form fields in PDF documents
Situation D: If creating your own user interface component in a programming language:
G10: Creating components using a technology that supports the accessibility … notification of changes using technology-specific techniques below:

ARIA4: Using a WAI-ARIA role to expose the role of a user interface component
ARIA5: Using WAI-ARIA state and property attributes to expose the state of a user interface component
ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user interface controls
Failures
The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of this Success Criterion by the Accessibility Guidelines Working Group.

F59: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to using script to make div or span a user interface control in HTML without providing a role for the control
F15: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to implementing custom controls that do not use an accessibility API for the technology, or do so incompletely
F20: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 4.1.2 due to not updating text alternatives when changes to non-text content occur
F42: Failure of Success Criteria 1.3.1, 2.1.1, 2.1.3, or 4.1.2 when emulating links
F68: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to a user interface control not having a programmatically determined name
F79: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to the focus state of a user interface component not being programmatically determinable or no notification of change of focus state available
F86: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to not providing names for each part of a multi-part form field, such as a US telephone number
F89: Failure of Success Criteria 2.4.4, 2.4.9 and 4.1.2 due to not providing an accessible name for an image which is the only content in a link
F111: Failure of Success Criteria 1.3.1, 2.5.3, and 4.1.2 due to a control with visible label text but no accessible name
Key Terms
Test Rules
The following are Test Rules for certain aspects of this Success Criterion. It is not necessary to use these particular Test Rules to check for conformance with WCAG, but they are defined and approved test methods. For information on using Test Rules, see Understanding Test Rules for WCAG Success Criteria.

ARIA attribute is defined in WAI-ARIA
ARIA state or property has valid value
Button has non-empty accessible name
Element with aria-hidden has no content in sequential focus navigation
Element with presentational children has no focusable content
Element with role attribute has required states and properties
Form field has non-empty accessible name
Image button has non-empty accessible name
Link has non-empty accessible name
Menuitem has non-empty accessible name
Role attribute has valid value
ARIA required ID references exist
ARIA state or property is permitted
Iframe element has non-empty accessible name
Iframe elements with identical accessible names have equivalent purpose
Summary element has non-empty accessible name
 Back to Top
 Help improve this page
Please share your ideas, suggestions, or comments via e-mail to the publicly-archived list public-agwg-comments@w3.org or via GitHub

E-mail
Fork & Edit on GitHub
New GitHub Issue
Date: Updated 25 August 2025.

Developed by Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG) Participants (Co-Chairs: Alastair Campbell, Charles Adams, Rachael Bradley Montgomery. W3C Staff Contact: Kevin White).

The content was developed as part of the WAI-Core projects funded by U.S. Federal funds. The user interface was designed by the Education and Outreach Working Group (EOWG) with contributions from Shadi Abou-Zahra, Steve Lee, and Shawn Lawton Henry as part of the WAI-Guide project, co-funded by the European Commission.

W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)

Strategies, standards, and supporting resources to make the Web accessible to people with disabilities.

 Mastodon
 LinkedIn
 Feed
 YouTube
Get News in Email
Copyright © 2025 World Wide Web Consortium (W3C®). See Permission to Use WAI Material.

Contact WAI
Site Map
News
Accessibility Statement
Translations
Resources for Roles